[Music]
ten exercises that will make you smarter
in a week oh ho I've been waiting my
whole life for this we all work out hard
at the gym now and then but how often do
we train our brain yes you should
exercise it as well
exercises games and even meditation can
help you with that try them now and add
this video to your favorites to make
them a part of your daily routine you'll
see the first result in a week and then
we'll work even better if you keep
working out for a month coming down from
number ten enriching your vocabulary a
rich vocabulary is a sign of a smart
person isn't it
reading books is an obvious way to
become smarter however not all of us
honestly have time for that these days
here's a solution this one-minute
exercise will help you find new ways of
saying beautiful and comfortable look
around now describe the first object
that caught your eye that pen on your
desk for example can you come up with
five or six different descriptions of it
you have 30 seconds for the task
[Music]
now was it hard if you felt like the
words you need were right at the tip of
your tongue but did not come out here's
what you can do pause this video for a
couple of minutes and consult an online
thesaurus write down all the synonyms
you need there you go as you go back to
this exercise just pick another object
next to you you will see that this task
will get easier every time you try it
and your vocab will grow number 9
visualizing time for some memory
training it is an essential part of any
brain workout can you quickly memorize
the words you see on your screen top
model ocean Sun Hat dog sandwich hmm
5 seconds was not enough what if we try
to connect these words logically a top
model was having a photo shoot by the
ocean the wind blew her son hat off but
the dog saved it and was rewarded with a
sandwich now play this image in your
mind can you remember the words in their
original order now I bet you can we have
a few more word sets for you to practice
as you go back to this video
date spaghetti sad vegetarian surprise
policeman tourist graffiti museum 5
cruise octopus fireworks heels bandage
school Hamlet
wig disaster joke number eight chunking
here's another memory boosting exercise
he can never do too many of these right
how good are you at memorizing numbers
let's try this one five one seven four
nine eight seven two three one wait
keep it on hmm I think it was 56
something something eight I give up if
you feel that this one as well it's not
a reason to panic your brain just handle
short-term memories of no importance to
you this way it lets go of them real
quick keeping them for no longer than 30
seconds and it only keeps a maximum of
five items in there the 10 digit number
you've just seen was useless to you but
what if it was some data at work you
only need four now so it's important but
not important enough to keep it for a
long term checking the same numbers you
need for your report a million times can
get annoying the good news is you can
train your short-term memory easily
let's just split the number into
sections you've got five seconds to
memorize it five one seven four nine
eight seven two three one and now enjoy
this cute cat photo for another five
seconds to let the numbers sync yet ah
time to check the numbers can you
remember all the ten digits now I
believe you can try it with your social
security or credit card number or the
numbers from your phone book keep
chunking to boost your short-term memory
number seven memory shortcuts there are
some pieces of information we'd better
remember for good important historical
moments countries and capitals u.s.
presidents can you name the first 16 of
them Washington definitely and then it
was Jefferson or Madison I can't tell
you but I can definitely tell you that
Washington's army jogged many miles and
jog very hard to Philadelphia to find
pretty British ladies makes no sense oh
yes it does here is a list of the first
American presidents by the last name
Washington Adams Jefferson madison
monroe Quincy Adams Jackson Van Buren
Harrison Tyler Polk Taylor Fillmore
Pierce Buchanan Lincoln so if you
memorize this line remembering the
presidents will be way easier you can
try using nanami devices those lines
with a hidden meaning to keep other
information in mind as well
number six reaction game now that you've
trained your memory it's time for a
reaction exercise you will see different
shapes appear on the screen your task is
to clap every time you see a circle
we'll start with a slow easy sequence
and then go faster and faster ready
let's go
[Music]
this one was easy but how about we take
it one level up let's do it faster
[Music]
and now level three to top it you will
see quickly moving images of different
colors
you should only clap when you see blue
circles got it go
[Music]
that was hard well practice makes
perfect and it will get easier as you
keep trying
number five pocket reading have you ever
tried neuro bik's well I've tried being
erotic but it's not as much fun now
no robux you're about to do it it is a
set of exercises which are meant to
stimulate different brain areas in what
might seem like unusual ways the term
new robux was made up by dr. Katz a
professor of Neurobiology at Duke
University Medical he knows to activate
all your senses in one exercise doing
that is very good for your brain put
some coins in your pocket now without
looking inside try to understand what
coins they are feel them their size
texture and edges can tell you a lot now
see if you guessed it right number four
inventing conversations another neuro
big exercise which is also fun I promise
you will see a short mute video your
task is to improvise and invent some
lines for its characters it will be more
fun if you do it with your friends but
even doing it by yourself will stimulate
your brain and imagination
[Music]
the next time you try it you can just
turn your TV on and set it on mute it
will give you enough space to improvise
[Music]
number three making predictions try to
predict the outcome of something which
will be known in the next 24 hours a
sports game some event at work the
ranking of your favorite band in the
music chart it can be whatever then wait
to find out the results what's the point
of it making a prediction is a great way
of boosting your brainpower first it
takes some imagination to do it second
it will keep you intrigued and stimulate
the reward system of the brain
according to neuroscientist Judy Willis
MD if you were right you would be happy
if you were wrong you will make your
conclusions and might learn something
new number two riddles different kinds
of riddles are a great help if you want
to keep your mind sharp let's give it a
go if you take three apples from a group
of five how many apples will you have
hmm five three two the answer is three
apples you just took them yourself all
right let's try it again you can buy
eight eggs for 26 cents how many can you
buy for a cent and a quarter five
seconds to think it over
[Music]
the answer is eight eggs you still have
26 sets there are seven daughters in the
family each of them has a brother how
many kids are there in the family sounds
like a big family of eight all sisters
have just one brother alright enough of
that number one building focus let's
finish our workout with some super
useful relaxation we all find it hard to
concentrate at work or school sometimes
or a bad feeling when your thoughts are
going in all the wrong directions boo
thumbs up if you can relate let's stop
with this simple meditation all you have
to do is close your eyes and breathe out
ten times without thinking of anything
that's an unusual way of getting smarter
you might say well it's all about
developing your ability to focus and
concentrate now give it a go close your
eyes and slowly count to ten
[Music]
and ten so was it hard you must have had
all of those thoughts bubbling through
your mind as you repeat this exercise
you will notice how it gets easier and
easier to cut all the extras out just
you and the breathing now don't forget
to save this video to your favorites so
that you can come back to it easily if
you liked it let us know by using the
thumbs up button if it gets 50,000 likes
we'll share more brain workout ideas
subscribe to our channel life is bitter
on the bright side